Created a post in the FAQ section for Job Cache feature (re_use_equivalent_jobs) (#5823)
galaxyproject/training-material: faqs/galaxy/re_use_equivalent_jobs.md

---
title: How do I re-use equivalent jobs in Galaxy (aka Job Cache)?
area: user preferences
layout: faq
box_type: tip
contributors: [dadrasarmin]
---

> Galaxy instances allow you to retrieve the results of running a tool from the cache (and hence almost immediately) if the tool with the exact same input and parameters has already been executed in your history. 

Author: I think it is any histories. But I am not sure how this feature has been implemented.

This is also true if another user used the same tool and inputs and made their history publicly available.

> This is highly helpful in situations like training events. In such a case, the instructor might complete the tasks and make their results public. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be highly helpful, e.g., for training events, if the instructor makes a respective training history public before the event. 
```

If the trainee activates this option in their account and uses the same input and parameters, they will immediately receive the results. This feature reduce the waiting time in the training sessions,
saves energy and computational resources, and therefore reducing environmental impact.

To activate this feature, take the following steps:

1. To activate this option for your account, click on your username in the top right part of the page.
- Navigate to `Preferences` and then `Manage Information`.
- Click `Do you want to be able to re-use equivalent jobs?` and change `no` to `yes`.
- Scroll down to the bottom of the middle panel and select the `Save` button.
2. After completing the first step, you will notice a new option for each tool you want to run, above the `Run tool` button and below the `Email notification`. When you activate `Attempt to re-use jobs with identical parameters?`
  and click on the `Run tool`, Galaxy will check if you have access to a run with identical parameters. If so, the results will be displayed shortly thereafter.

> At the moment, this feature only works with data stored in your own histories or `datasets` directory.

Author: @bgruening Should know better than me. Or, we can design an experiment and check all possible (and not possible) variations.

> At the moment, this feature only works with data stored in your own histories or `datasets` directory.

Reviewer 2: It works for data in your own history, or imported history, or data from a data library.

> At the moment, this feature only works with data stored in your own histories or `datasets` directory.

Reviewer 2: In other words, the limitation is if two people upload the same data this is not recognised by Galaxy. But if you share data inside Galaxy the cache can recognise the "same" data.
